---
date: "2014-05-11"
title: "3 Gun Info"
layout: article
categories: articles
toc: true
image:
  teaser: "assets/3gun_teaser.jpg"
  feature: "assets/3gun_feature.jpg"
---

3 Gun is an exciting new type of shooting sport that uses a rifle, shotgun and pistol on various courses of fire. UDPL hosts four 3 Gun matches a year and one state level match. Due to the higher level of complexity involved in 3 Gun matches we require that you shoot one of our UDPL Handgun matches with us before trying your first 3 gun match.

## 3 Gun Nation

As one of the [founding clubs](http://3gunnation.com/club_details?id=3108) with 3 Gun Nation you can sign up to be a 3 Gun Nation member and have your UDPL 3 Gun match scores submitted to 3 Gun Nation. By signing up with 3 Gun Nation you have greater opportunities to shoot in state level matches across the USA.

## UDPL 3 Gun Rules

**Current as of 5/11/2014**

UDPL reserves the right to change or modify rules if necessary. The following rules apply to 2014 UPDL 3‐gun and rifle matches.

### Firearms  

6. All firearms used by participants must be serviceable and safe.  Range Officers may demand
examination of a participant’s firearm or related equipment, at any time, to check they are functioning
safely.  If any such item is declared unserviceable or unsafe by a Range Officer, it must be withdrawn
from the event until the item is repaired to the satisfaction of the Range Master.

6. If a participant’s firearm becomes unserviceable during competition, that participant may replace his/her firearm with another of the same model, caliber, and sighting system approved by the RM/MD or his designee.  In the event that a firearm in the same model, caliber, and sighting system cannot be found, the shooter may use any available firearm but may also be moved to another division depending on the type of replacement firearm used.  All replacement firearms must be approved by the RM/MD or his designee.

6. For purposes of this ruling, a “firearm” consists of a specific caliber, receiver, barrel, stock, and sighting system combination

6. The same firearm system, for each gun, per rule 3 shall be used during the entire event.  

6. Participants will not reconfigure any firearm during the course of the entire event (i.e. change caliber, barrel length, shotgun magazine tube length, sighting systems or stock style.)  This will be considered Unsportsmanlike Conduct.  **Note:  Shotgun Choke changes are allowed.**

### Firearms Per Division

The minimum cartridge case dimension for handguns to be used in 3 Gun Nation Regional Matches is 9x19mm, 9mm Luger, 9mm Parabellum, or 9mm NATO or 9mm. The minimum rifle caliber used in 3 Gun Nation Regional Matches is 5.45mm x39mm and shotguns must be 20 gauge or larger. Some divisions may have a higher minimum.

7. Open Class  
    7. Pistol  
        7. No limitations on accessories.  
        7. Magazine length may not exceed 171.25 millimeters.  
    7. Rifle  
        7. No limitations on accessories. Rifle supporting devices (i.e. bipods, etc.) may be added or removed during the course of the event.  
    7. Shotgun  
        7. No limitations on accessories.  
        7. Barrel length may not be changed for the duration of the event.  
        7. Shotgun speed loaders are allowed in Open  
            * Shotgun speed loaders must be the new type, or modified old style with primer relief cut.  
            * Use of old style shotgun speed loaders without the primer relief cut will result in
disqualification.  

7. Tactical Irons  
    7. Pistol  
        7. Firearms must be of a factory configuration.  
        7. Internal modifications are allowed providing they do not alter the original factory configuration of the handgun.  
        7. Firearms with custom or factory installed electronic sights, extended sights, compensators or barrel porting are NOT allowed in this division.  
        7. Magazines used shall not exceed 171.25 mm OAL (overall length) for single stacks, and shall not exceed 141.25mm OAL for staggered magazines.  
        7. Pistol Magazine failing the OAL inspection, after the competitor has completed one or more stages, results in the shooter being bumped to Open Class.  
    
    7. Rifle  
        7. Firearms must be of a factory configuration.  
        7. Internal modifications are allowed providing the modifications do not alter the original factory configuration of the rifle.  
        7. Iron rifles may be equipped with no more than one (1) non‐magnified optical sight.
        7. Any rifle supporting devices to include but not limited to  bipods and  mono pods  or a device that deploy legs and or supports and elevates the muzzle end of the gun are not permitted. Forward grips that are less than five inches long are acceptable.  
        7. Compensators are allowed in this division provided the compensator is not larger than 1 inch in diameter and 3 inches long, measured from the barrel muzzle to the end of the compensator.  

    7. Shotgun  
        7. Shotguns must be of a factory configuration.  
        7. Conventional tubular magazine fed shotguns, only, allowed in this division.  
        7. Barrel length may not be changed for the duration of the event.  
        7. Internal modifications are allowed providing the modifications do not alter the original factory configuration of the shotgun.  
        7. No electronic or optical sights are allowed on shotguns in this division.  
        7. No shotgun supporting devices (i.e. bipods, etc) are allowed in this division.  
        7. No compensators or porting on barrels allowed in this division.  
        7. No shotgun speed loaders are allowed in this division.
        7. No shotgun in tactical division may start a stage with more than 9 total in the shotgun.  

7. Tactical Optics  
    7. Pistol  
        7. Firearms must be of a factory configuration  
        7. Internal modifications are allowed providing they do not alter the original factory configuration of the handgun.  
        7. Firearms with custom or factory installed electronic sights, optical sights, extended sights, compensators or barrel porting are NOT allowed in this division.  
        7. Magazines used shall not exceed 171.25 mm OAL (overall length for single stacks, and shall not exceed 141.25 mm for OAL staggered magazines.  
        7. Pistol Magazine failing the OAL inspection, after the competitor has completed one or more stages, results in the shooter being bumped to Open Class.  
        
    7. Rifle  
        7. Firearms must be of a factory configuration  
        7. Internal modifications are allowed providing the modifications do not alter the original configuration of the rifle.  
        7. Scoped rifles may be equipped with no more than one (1) optical sight.  
        7. A magnifier may be used with an optical sight in this division without violating the one‐optic rule, provided:  
            * The magnifier does not contain an aiming reticule.  
            * The magnifier cannot be used as an aiming device by itself.  
            * The magnifier is mounted in the same location on the rifle for the entire event.  
        7. If the provisions above are satisfied:  
            * The magnifier will not be considered a second/separate optic.  
            * The competitor may start and use the magnifier in either the magnified or unmagnified mode without further restriction.  
        7. Any rifle supporting devices to include but not limited to bipods and/or mono pods or a device that deploy legs and or supports and elevates the muzzle end of the gun are not permitted. Forward grips that are less than five inches long are acceptable.  
        7. Compensators are allowed in this division provided the compensator is not larger than 1 inch in diameter and 3 inches long, measured from the barrel muzzle to the end of the compensator.  
    
    7. Shotgun  
        7. Shotguns must be of a factory configuration.  
        7. Conventional tubular magazine fed shotguns, only, allowed in this division.  
        7. Barrel length may not be changed for the duration of the event.
        7. Internal modifications are allowed providing the modifications do not alter the original factory configuration of the shotgun.  
        7. No electronic or optical sights are allowed on shotguns in this division.  
        7. No shotgun supporting devices (i.e. bipods, etc) are allowed in this division.  
        7. No compensators or porting on barrels allowed in this division.  
        7. No shotgun speed loaders are allowed in this division.  
        7. No shotgun in tactical division may start a stage with more than 9 total in the shotgun.
        
        



## UDPL Additional Rules

At local multi‐gun matches, we will have an extra division called "Other". This division will allow shooters to participate with guns that don’t meet the same specific requirements of the standard divisions. This will allow youth to participate using 22’s and 410’s.

This division will **NOT** be available for the Cedar Valley Multi Gun Match.

#### “Other” Division Considerations

* No minimum caliber or length requirements (example:  22lr, 9mm carbine, 5.7 x 28).  
* Allows the use of different guns on each stage or reconfiguring them during the match.  
* Allows for the use of suppressors.  
* **Does not allow for the use of select fire/full auto firearms.**
* The no‐steel or partially‐steel projectile rule will still apply.
* Does **not** exempt any safety rules.          

