---
title: "2017 Updates"
layout: article
categories: Announcements
---

There have been a number of changes in 2017. New IDPA rules, the match fees are being increased and new incentives for helping to setup the match.



## Club related news

The general **club meeting will take place Feb 25th before the match.** Alan and Michael Scott will propose the new and retiring officers. It shouldn't take very long. If you are not an IDPA shooter this gives you a good reason to come and give it a try. IDPA has new rules that let you shoot 3 matches for free to try it out.

We are looking for an Equipment Manager. They would work closly with all the match directors in making sure they have everything they need for their match.  Also in charge of keeping the Conex's organized.  PLEASE reach out to Jim Smith if you are at all interested. Would be great to have 2 people working together on this.

The Liabilty Insurance went up by 3000 dollars due to increased participation. With this added cost we are raising our match fees. The membership is still the same $12 for a calender year and members continue to get a discount on matches. All other match fees are going up $5 across the board. That means the new match fee schedule is:

| **Match Type**  |**UDPL Member**|**Non Member**|
|Regular UDPL/IDPA Match | $20.00 | $30.00 |
|3 Gun Match| $25.00 | $35.00 |
|Female Shooters| $10.00 | $10.00 |
|Junior Shooters (17 and under)| $10.00 | $10.00 |
|Match Safety Officers | $5.00 | $5.00 |

Note that Match Safety Officers must be approved by the Match Director and the discount is only available if you are the SO at that match.

These new rates will be in effect with the 25th Febuary Match. **ALL FEES NEED TO BE PAID EITHER BY CASH OR CHECK**

Now with the new fees we are starting a "set up day bonus" for all those that come the day before a match and help with set up. Those that come and do the work not only get to shoot the MATCH AT NO COST but their name will be put in for a drawing for a gun at the end of the calender year.

Each time you come out and work with the match director they will turn over your name to be added for the drawing. The drawing will take place at NEXT years general member meeting (in 2018). Setup is a thankless job and we're hoping to encourage more people to help with these changes.

## Schedule for 2017

The schedule has been finalized and is available [here](https://www.udpl.net/schedule/). You can filter to see just the UDPL matches at the FARM by entering FARM in the box on the right side.

## February 25th IDPA match

This match will be using the new IDPA 2017 rules which you can find [here](http://www.idpa.com/compete/rules).

[Register on Practiscore](https://practiscore.com/udpl-2017-february-idpa-match/register)

A short summary of the rules can be found [here](http://www.actionpistolgroup.com/2017%20IDPA%20RULE%20CHANGE%20SYNOPSIS.pdf). My even shorter summary is:

* 1 second per point down
* No more Failure to Neutralize (FTN) penalty
* Head area of target has a new 4" circle that is the down 0. Outside of this circle but still on the head is now a down 1 zone.
* No more cover calls. Now we have fault lines. Inside the line and you're safe
* Shoot pretty much any gun in the NFC (Not for Competition) divison. This includes Pistol Caliber Carbines and handguns with optics.
* Maximum target distance for scenerio stages is 20 yards, 50 yards for standards stages
* Penalties for not helping to tape/reset or coaching a shooter

You can also now shoot 3 IDPA matches without being a member to try it out.






